SOURCE: normalized_from_ccpa.txt
NORMALIZED_UTC: 2026-03-10T05:35:43.373255+00:00
FRAMEWORK: ccpa

RULE-0001 | This landmark law secures new privacy rights for California consumers, including: The right to know about the personal information a business collects about them and how it is used and shared;
RULE-0002 | In November of 2020, California voters approved Proposition 24, the CPRA , which amended the CCPA and added new additional privacy protections that began on January 1, 2023.
RULE-0003 | Businesses that are subject to the CCPA have several responsibilities, including responding to consumer requests to exercise these rights and giving consumers certain notices explaining their privacy practices .
RULE-0004 | Right to delete : You can request that businesses delete personal information they collected from you and tell their service providers to do the same, subject to certain exceptions (such as if the business is legally required to keep the information).
RULE-0005 | Right to opt-out of sale or sharing : You may request that businesses stop selling or sharing your personal information (“opt-out”), including via a user-enabled global privacy control.
RULE-0006 | Right to limit use and disclosure of sensitive personal information : You can direct businesses to only use your sensitive personal information (for example, your social security number, financial account information, your precise geolocation data, or your genetic data) for limited purposes, such as providing you with the services you requested.
RULE-0007 | For example, it could include your name, social security number, email address, records of products purchased, internet browsing history, geolocation data, fingerprints, and inferences from other personal information that could create a profile about your preferences and characteristics.
RULE-0008 | Sensitive personal information is a specific subset of personal information that includes certain government identifiers (such as social security numbers);
RULE-0009 | an account log-in, financial account, debit card, or credit card number with any required security code, password, or credentials allowing access to an account;
RULE-0010 | You can sue a business if your nonencrypted and nonredacted personal information was stolen in a data breach as a result of the business’s failure to maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect it.
RULE-0011 | If this happens, you can sue for the amount of monetary damages you actually suffered from the breach or “statutory damages” of up to $750 per incident.
RULE-0012 | Before suing, you must give the business written notice of which CCPA sections it violated and allow 30 days to respond in writing that it has cured the violations and that no further violations will occur.
RULE-0013 | For all other violations of the CCPA, only the Attorney General or the California Privacy Protection Agency may take legal action against non-compliant entities.
RULE-0014 | Starting on July 1, 2023, you also will be able to file complaints with the California Privacy Protection Agency for violations of the CCPA, as amended, occurring on or after that date.
RULE-0015 | The type of personal information that must have been stolen is your first name (or first initial) and last name in combination with any of the following: Your social security number Your driver’s license number, tax identification number, passport number, military identification number, or other unique identification number issued on a government document commonly used to identify a person's identity Your financial account number, credit card number, or debit card number if combined with any required security code, access code, or password that would allow someone access to your account Your medical or health insurance information Your fingerprint, retina or iris image, or other unique biometric data used to identify a person's identity (but not including photographs unless used or stored for facial recognition purposes) This personal information must have been stolen in nonencrypted and nonredacted form.
RULE-0016 | In addition, the personal information must have been stolen in a data breach as a result of the business’s failure to maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect it.
RULE-0017 | As of January 1, 2023, the CPRA’s amendments to the CCPA are in effect, and businesses are required to comply with all express statutory requirements.
RULE-0018 | Businesses are also required to comply with those CCPA regulations currently in effect.
RULE-0019 | Those regulations were recently updated by the California Privacy Protection Agency.
RULE-0020 | These regulations appear in Title 11, Division 6, Section 7001 et seq.
RULE-0021 | Businesses must wait at least 12 months before asking you to opt back in to the sale or sharing of your personal information.
RULE-0022 | For children under the age of 13, that opt-in must come from the child’s parent or guardian.
RULE-0023 | Businesses that sell personal information are subject to the CCPA's requirement to provide a clear and conspicuous “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link on their website that allows you to submit an opt-out request.
RULE-0024 | You can also submit an opt-out request via a user-enabled global privacy control, like the GPC, discussed in FAQ 8 & 9 below.
RULE-0025 | Businesses must respond as soon as feasibly possible to your request, up to a maximum of 15 business days from the date they received your request to opt-out.
RULE-0026 | While businesses are not required to verify that the person submitting an opt-out request is really the consumer for whom the business has personal information, they may need to ask you for additional information to make sure they stop selling the right person’s personal information.
RULE-0027 | See Civil Code section 1798.145 for more exceptions.
RULE-0028 | You must submit your request to the business itself.
RULE-0029 | Businesses that sell or share personal information must offer two or more methods for consumers to submit requests to opt-out of the sale of their personal information.
RULE-0030 | For businesses that collect personal information from consumers online, one acceptable method for consumers to opt-out of sales or sharing is via a user-enabled global privacy control, like the GPC .
RULE-0031 | Developed in response to the CCPA and to enhance consumer privacy rights, the GPC is a ‘stop selling or sharing my data switch’ that is available on some internet browsers, like Mozilla Firefox, Duck Duck Go, and Brave, or as a browser extension.
RULE-0032 | Opting out of the sale or sharing of personal information should be easy for consumers, and the GPC is one option for consumers who want to submit requests to opt-out of the sale or sharing of personal information via a user-enabled global privacy control.
RULE-0033 | Under law, it must be honored by covered businesses as a valid consumer request to stop the sale or sharing of personal information.
RULE-0034 | To learn more about the GPC, you can also visit https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa/gpc 9.
RULE-0035 | Developers have begun to innovate around the GPC and created different mechanisms for consumers, such as EFF’s Privacy Badger extension or the Brave Privacy Browser.
RULE-0036 | Specifically, you may request that businesses disclose: The categories of personal information collected Specific pieces of personal information collected The categories of sources from which the business collected personal information The purposes for which the business uses the personal information The categories of third parties with whom the business shares the personal information The categories of information that the business sells or discloses to third parties Businesses must provide you this information for the 12-month period preceding your request.
RULE-0037 | They must provide this information to you free of charge.
RULE-0038 | Businesses must designate at least two methods for you to submit your request—for example, an email address, website form, or hard copy form.
RULE-0039 | Businesses must respond to your request within 45 calendar days.
RULE-0040 | Businesses must verify that the person making a request to know is the consumer about whom the business has personal information.
RULE-0041 | Common reasons why businesses may refuse to disclose your personal information include: The business cannot verify your request The request is manifestly unfounded or excessive, or the business has already provided personal information to you more than twice in a 12-month period Businesses cannot disclose certain sensitive information, such as your social security number, financial account number, or account passwords, but they must tell you if they’re collecting that type of information Disclosure would restrict the business’s ability to comply with legal obligations, exercise legal claims or rights, or defend legal claims If the personal information is certain medical information, consumer credit reporting information, or other types of information exempt from the CCPA See Civil Code section 1798.145 for more exceptions.
RULE-0042 | Businesses must designate at least two methods for you to submit your request—for example, a toll-free number, email address, website form, or hard copy form.
RULE-0043 | Businesses must verify that the person making a request to delete is the consumer about whom the business has personal information.
RULE-0044 | The business cannot verify your request To complete your transaction, provide a reasonably anticipated product or service, or for certain warranty and product recall purposes For certain business security practices For certain internal uses that are compatible with reasonable consumer expectations or the context in which the information was provided To comply with legal obligations, exercise legal claims or rights, or defend legal claims If the personal information is certain medical information, consumer credit reporting information, or other types of information exempt from the CCPA See Civil Code sections 1798.105(d) and 1798.145 for more exceptions.
RULE-0045 | The California Privacy Protection Agency is currently engaged in a formal rulemaking process and has proposed CCPA regulations pertaining to the right to correct , but these are not currently final or effective.
RULE-0046 | Businesses must verify that the person making a request to correct is the consumer about whom the business has personal information.
RULE-0047 | You can direct businesses to only use your sensitive personal information (for example, your social security number, financial account information, your precise geolocation data, or your genetic data) for limited purposes, such as providing you with the services you requested.
RULE-0048 | The California Privacy Protection Agency is currently engaged in a formal rulemaking process and has proposed CCPA regulations pertaining to the right to limit , but these are not currently final or effective.
RULE-0049 | The CCPA requires businesses to give consumers certain information in a “notice at collection.” A notice at collection must list the categories of personal information businesses collect about consumers and the purposes for which they use the categories of information.
RULE-0050 | (To find out how you can learn what specific information a business has collected about you, see the Right to Know section .) If the business sells consumers’ personal information, then the notice at collection must include a Do Not Sell or Share link .
RULE-0051 | This notice must be provided at or before the point at which the business collects your personal information.
RULE-0052 | The CCPA requires business privacy policies to include information on consumers’ privacy rights and how to exercise them: the Right to Know , the Right to Delete , the Right to Opt-Out of Sale , the the Right to Correct , the the Right to Limit , and the Right to Non-Discrimination .
RULE-0053 | Another California law, Civil Code section 1798.99.80 , defines a data broker as “a business that knowingly collects and sells to third parties the personal information of a consumer with whom the business does not have a direct relationship.” This law exempts certain businesses that are regulated by other laws from this definition.
RULE-0054 | Back To Top Other Consumer Resources on CCPA California Privacy Protection Agency’s FAQ on the CCPA Consumer-Action.org Take action!
